# CourseScheduler

The CourseScheduler DSL is designed specifically to work with classes offered at the Claremont Colleges through the online Portal. Users may create their own list of classes to add to the class database with which they will run their program, if they can do so in the required format.


## Installing SWI-prolog
(Installation instructions are based on those given in the HMC CS60 assignment write-up found [here](https://www.cs.hmc.edu/courses/2014/fall/cs60/assignments/a3_2014f.html)).

For Macs: Follow the directions given [here](http://brew.sh) to install Homebrew. Then use Homebrew to install Prolog by running the following command in the terminal: brew install swi-prolog.

For Windows (32 or 64 bit) and Linux: Download a version of SWI-prolog from [here](http://www.swi-prolog.org/download/stable).


## Running the Sample Programs

Note: You must have swi-pl on your computer to run this code.

Download the SourceCode.pl file, and the sample user file(s) which you would like to run into the same folder on your computer. Open the terminal and navigate to that folder. Run the following command in terminal:

/usr/local/bin/swipl -f sourceCode.pl

This will begin the program. You will then be prompted to input the list of classes as it was generated by the Scheduler App. Both sample files are based on preferences for the same list of classes. Copy and paste the list of classes from the ClassInputSyntax.txt file.

Click enter on your keyboard. After a moment you will be prompted to input the name of the file with your code type either:

'SimpleSampleUserFile.txt'.

or

'SampleUserFile.txt'.

Click enter on your keyboard. You will then be prompted to type the number of schedules you would like to have generated for you. Try typing:

30.

Or another number that you want to see.

This will generate a list of the top 30 (or a different number if you use that instead of 30), highest rating schedules which could be made from the given class list. 


## Writing Your Own Program

Note: You must have swi-pl on your computer and sourceCode.pl downloaded and in the same directory as your program file.

First, go to [this link](http://rjustice05.github.io/hmc-scheduler/#) to a version of the Scheduler App, created by Casey Chu to work with the CourseScheduler DSL. Follow the directions in the top right hand side of the page to drag the bookmarklet to their bookmark bar. Go to add/drop classes on the portal and click on the bookmarklet. You will then be able to add all classes and sections which you are interested in to the Scheduler App.

Look through the list of classes which you have added, and decide what preferences you would like to specify. You can use negative preference values to specify your dislike for something, positive values to specify your like for it, specify no preference if you don't have a strong opinion (the default preference is 0 for everything), or specify a very high preference value for a class that is required.

White space will not affect your program, and you may put comments in your code by using either 

% comment 

for a single line or 

/* comment */ 

for a longer comment. Seperate each preference rating with a ',' and put a '.' at the end of your program. The following is a list of the specifications and preferences you can state for your schedule:

rateProf('LastName', PreferenceValue),
rateClass('CourseCode', PreferenceValue),
rateSection('CourseCode', Section, PreferenceValue),
rateDay(Day, PreferenceValue),
rateTimeBlock(StartTime, EndTime, PreferenceValue),

setMaxCourseLoad(NumberOfCredits),			%default is 18 (maximum # of credits at HMC without overloading)
setMinCourseLoad(NumberOfCredits), 			%default is 12 (minimum # of credits at HMC to be a full time student)

Save your program in a .txt file in the same folder as sourceCode.pl

Now go to that folder in the terminal and run the following command:

/usr/local/bin/swipl -f sourceCode.pl

You will be prompted for your class list, which you can retrieve from the Scheduler App by clicking on the 'Prologify' button near the bottom right corner and then copying and pasting the full generated list into the terminal. Click Enter. You will be prompted for the name of your file, input it in quotes followed by a period as shown and then click enter.

'MyProgram.txt'.

You will be asked for the number of schedules you want generated, input a number followed by a period and click enter. If you have a short program you may have many possible schedules which tie for your highest preference so you may wish to generate 20-30 or more schedules just so you can see what ties may occur.

The program will output a list of possible schedules. Feel free to return to the Scheduler App to visualize the generated schedules (Currently this must be done by hand, so you will have to go through and select only the courses placed in your schedule by CourseScheduler and then click generate on the Scheduler App to display the timings for that particular schedule.) Please note, the Scheduler App will not allow you to display two classes which occur during the same time on a particular day even if they are in different halfs of the semester.


